### Is there space overhead to using a hash map instead of an array?

A hashmap stores keys and values, so if you were to implement a trie using a hashmap, you would be storing not only the values, but also the keys. If you use an array, then the key is actually the index of the value in the array, so you do not have to store it anywhere.

Besides that, hashmaps are less space efficient than arrays because they always have a load factor which is smaller than one, which is the same as saying that they keep more entries allocated than necessary due to the way they work.

### disadvantages to hashmaps? 
hash-tables have constant time insertion, a hash-table will occasionally need to grow its internal structure and re-bucket its entries. This is an operation that has a cost proportional to the current size of the hash-table. The result of this is that insertion time is not always consistent, i.e. insertion will be constant, O(1), but occasionally you will notice a linear delay, O(n) as the table is grown. (This behaviour characteristic has led some to suggest favouring a tree over hash-table in the default/naïve case.) </br>
You need to make sure the hashing algorithm of the item you are adding is sound. What this means that for an arbitrary set of elements, the resultant hash-codes are spread well across the range of the hash-code type (in Java and C# this is int). If you have a number of items with the same value (zero anyone?) then your hash-table will degrade into an elaborate linked-list and performance will dramatically decrease. </br>
You need to ensure that the hash-code of your items does not change over time and that the equality method (Java's equals() or .NET's Equals()) is implemented to compare the same set of fields used for the hash-code. (Ideally this would mean the objects you add to the table are immutable but alternatively you may instead make sure that any mutable fields have no bearing on the hash-code calculation and equals method: a risky strategy. With changing hash-codes the table will not be able to find the entries you have already added to it when you later come to retrieve them. </br>
Hash-tables do not, generally, preserve ordering -- be it natural ordering or order of insertion. (Those that do typically employ a parallel structure to maintain the ordering, or else perform a relatively expensive sort at time of iteration.) </br>